
Component Version Requirements
=============================================================================

RStudio requires relatively recent versions of a number of components. It is
therefore likely to only correctly configure and build on more recent Linux
systems. Specific version requirements for various components include:

- R 2.11.1
- CMake 2.8
- Boost 1.63
- Qt 4.8 [Required only for Desktop]


Installation of Qt SDK 4.8
=============================================================================

RStudio Desktop requires Qt 4.8 (the most recent version). Qt 4.8 is included 
in only the most up to date Linux distros (e.g. Ubuntu 12.04, Fedora 16, 
OpenSUSE 12.2). Therefore, the install-dependencies scripts referenced below
install a version of the Qt 4.8 SDK into /opt/RStudio-QtSDK (the special 
RStudio prefix on the directory is included so this installation doesn't 
conflict with any other versions of Qt installed on the system).

If you are either building RStudio Server or running a Linux distribution 
that already includes Qt 4.8 you may wish to prevent installation of the
Qt 4.8 SDK. To do this pass the --exclude-qt-sdk flag to the install 
dependencies script, for example:

./install-dependencies-debian --exclude-qt-sdk

More information on running the install-dependencies script is included
in the section below.


Installing Dependencies for Debian/Ubuntu, Fedora, RedHat/CentOS, or OpenSUSE
=============================================================================

1) R installation - building RStudio requires that a version of R be 
previously installed within a location where the R executable can be run from
the system shell (e.g. /usr/bin or /usr/local/bin). Building R from source
and then executing 'make install' will conform to this requirement as will
installing it using the system standard package management tools (apt-get, 
yum, etc).

2) Run the install-dependencies script appropriate to your platform's
package management system (to optionally exclude installation of the Qt 4.8
SDK be sure to specify the --exclude-qt-sdk flag as described above).

   ./install-dependencies-debian  
   ./install-dependencies-yum
   ./install-dependencies-zypper
   
Note that this script will install Boost 1.63 in the /opt/rstudio-tools/boost
directory (the /opt/rstudio-tools directory is used to insure that this 
installation of boost doesn't conflict with other versions of boost installed
on the system). This part of the installation will take a few minutes since
it requires that boost be built from source for your system.


Installing Dependencies for Other Systems
=============================================================================

If the system you are installing on is either older than the minimum required
versions listed above or another Linux distribution entirely, then you should
do the following to make sure you have fulfilled all dependencies:

1) Using the install-dependencies-* scripts referenced above as a guide,
ensure that all of the referenced libraries are available on your system.

2) Run the install-common script (which will install Google Web Toolkit,
Hunspell dictionaries, MathJax, and Boost 1.63):

   dependencies
      common
         install-common

3) Optionally install the Qt SDK. You should do this if you are building the
Desktop version and don't have Qt 4.8 installed on the system:

   dependencies
      linux
         install-qt-sdk

4) If your system doesn't meet the minimum version requirements for CMake (2.8)
you can download a Linux binary of the latest version of CMake here:

  - https://cmake.org/download/

